

A
Proposal on
Student-Teacher Management System
For Aakash Tablet on Android Platform



 


Submitted By-
Aman Patel
Bharat Gupta
Anupam Singh
Girish Joshi

Under Guidance of-
Prof. Dhirendra Mishra



Aakash R&D Center
SVKM’s NMIMS
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering
M. Tech (Computer Engineering)





Index
Chapter 	Content	Page No.
	Abstract 	i
1	Introduction	1
1.1	General overview	
1.2	Specification	
2	Automated attendance module	
2.1	Introduction	
2.2	Flow chart	
2.3	Graphical user interface design	
2.4	Data base schema design	
3	Test conduction module(Multiple choice question based)	
3.1	Introduction	
3.2	Flow chart	
3.3	Graphical user interface design	
3.4	Data base schema design	
4	Assignment module	
4.1	Introduction	
4.2	Flow chart	
4.3	Graphical user interface design	
4.4	Data base schema design	
5	Report generation module	
5.1	Introduction	
5.2	Flow chart	
5.3	Graphical user interface design	
5.4	Data base schema design	
6	Feedback Module	
6.1	Introduction	
6.2	Flow chart	
6.3	Graphical user interface design	
6.4	Data base schema design	
7	References 	
		




ABSTRACT
Student Teacher Management System is an Android Application aimed at providing a wide range of access to the Teacher in managing and monitoring the academics and students attendance. 
The Teacher can even maintain the attendance record of the student. This internet-based application provides the Students of the system a centralized view of the things maintained in the software depending on the privileges assigned by the teacher accordingly.
In this, teachers are there to solve problems, which have posted by the Student. Student can use this application and take the important information regarding assignments and Test. Afterwards students can take Assignments and Test. Even Student can only view their attendance sheet generated by the teacher. Teacher control on whole application is done any time. Teacher uploads the assignments and test details. 

1-INTRODUCTION
Android provides a dynamic environment and platform where business and technology strategies converge. Android focuses on new ways of building innovative applications and adoption while also leveraging many organizations current application-building assets.
The aim of this project i.e. Student Teacher Management System is all about student’s information from anywhere, anytime. The extra feature involved is our application is various module details, which keeps the student in touch. Our application is that it is secured in a way that only registered students can enter this application, which has valid password and id.
Main Objectives are: -
1. Shifting from manual to automatic attendance and assessment system to  provide simple and secure android platform for students and faculty members.
2. The Student Teacher Management System has been designed to enhance the security of the student performance assessment process between the Teacher and Student. 
3. A Student can give his feedback and the concerned faculty does analysis of the feedback and needful solutions are provided. Student can search answer according to category. 
4. Teacher generates the attendance report at the end of each class.
5. The main concern of this application is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the student teacher management system. And also to reduce the burden from students shoulders to the tablet.

	HARDWARE/SOFTWARE SPECIFICATION
Software: -
•	Android SDK
•	Eclipse IDE
•	NDK (Native Development Kit)
•	Phone Gap
•	Java

Hardware: -
•	Tablet with Android OS
 

2-Automated Attendance Module

2.1- Introduction-

Attendance Management module is developed for daily student attendance in institutes. It facilitates to access the attendance information of a particular student in a particular class. The information is sorted by the faculty, which will be provided by the teacher for a particular class. This system will also help in evaluating attendance eligibility criteria of a student. The purpose of developing attendance management system is to computerize the manual way of taking attendance. Another purpose for developing this software is to generate the report automatically at the end of the session.


2.2- Flow chart
2.2.1- (Idea -1): Flow Chart of Automated attendance system-




















								   No





					Yes









								No





					         Yes


























								No




					     Yes














	Figure 3.2.1 –Steps of Automated attendance system
2.2.2-(Idea -2): Flow Chart of Automated attendance system-






















	No

	
                                                                 






							No


					        Yes





 


		
        
















	





















	



	Figure 2.2.2 –Steps of Automated attendance system
                                                                            


2.3- Graphical User Interface-

Layout-

	



















3-Test conduction module (Multiple choice question based)

3.1- Introduction-

In this module assessment of a student is done through online tests i.e. tests are conducted on the tablet. Test consists of multiple-choice questions only. This module not only evaluates student performance but also builds ability to work fast and in more organized manner.





4- Assignment Module

4.1- Introduction

In this module rather than doing work on assignment sheets we are going to provide students with a framework so that the work could be completed on tablet itself. It not only save paper but also saves time and leads to the efficient way of completion of the assignment.

5-Report Generation module

5.1- Introduction
After each and every module, option has been given to generate the final report. 

6-Feedback module

6.1- Introduction

A Student can give his feedback and the concerned faculty does analysis of the feedback and needful solutions are provided. Student can search answer according to category.

7-References
[1]- http://www.bioenabletech.com/automated-attendance-system.

